Well, we have a table announcement
from the Publishing Committee
that we’d like to share with you also.
It says: “We’re pleased to inform you
“of a milestone with the Ramapo project.
“On December 28, 2022,
“the Town Board of Ramapo
made an important decision
“in favor of the new project at Ramapo.
“One aspect of the decision
will allow our buildings to be higher
“than the town’s
maximum-allowed building height of 45 feet,
“or about 14 meters.
“Some of the buildings for our project
need to have a height of 75 feet,
“or about 23 meters.
“Another aspect of the decision
allows us to begin clearing the necessary trees
“to prepare for site works and construction.
“Now, why is that significant?
“Typically, authorities in Ramapo
“only allow tree clearing
after construction approval is given.
“We do not expect
to receive construction approval
“until later this year.
“The legally permitted season
to cut down trees ends in March.
“That means without this approval,
“we would have to wait until November 2023
before we could begin construction activities.”
What was the experience like
for our brothers who have been working hard
to obtain the permits for the project?
What has been the reaction
of members of the Ramapo Town Board
and other professionals
we have worked with?
Let’s watch the following video.
This is a huge project.
It’s 1.7 million square feet.
It is easily the biggest project
that the town of Ramapo has ever seen.
It’s probably the biggest project
that we’ve seen in Rockland County.
It’s enormously complex.
To get an EIS all the way through the process
in 18 months would be incredibly aggressive
and is very rare that a project is able to hit that.
I mean, I’ve seen some projects
that go for ten years,
which is not ideal, clearly.
So the outcome of the meeting
was that there was a very positive discussion.
There was no one who spoke up
in opposition to our project.
The town supervisor just recommended
that they postpone the decision
for another two weeks.
I think it’s like anything else;
it can get frustrating.
But I also think it’s the best we can do, right?
We’re beating the arrows
as hard as we can on the ground,
and it’s in Jehovah’s hands.
We’ve had some disappointing things
up to this point,
and I feel like we’ve been stronger for it.
We’ve tried to get a little closer.
And the expectation—
The scripture in Proverbs 13 talks about how
‘expectation of your heart
can almost make you sick.’
We have felt some pressure,
and tonight was just a complete relief.
We got together, and we prayed
with all the other brothers
that have been working so hard on this project.
Then we sat in that room, and we just relaxed,
and we let Jehovah handle the rest.
So tonight the Town Board of Ramapo
voted on four different actions.
Those actions basically changed the law
to enable our project to move ahead.
They changed something called
the Comprehensive Plan
of the Town of Ramapo.
They also enabled
a special permit application
to go forward.
And then they also scheduled
a public hearing later in December,
which basically enables some other things
about our project to move forward,
such as potentially the removal of trees.
I think, you know,
this was a major milestone tonight,
and I think everybody
should be really excited
that this really allows the project
to move forward
in the way that was envisioned
from the beginning.
We certainly went in
with questions and concerns
that we wanted addressed,
and the satisfying part is,
from my point of view at least,
those questions and concerns
were all met (and properly)
and more than adequately addressed.
My feeling on the project
went from skeptical and objective
(and I’m still always trying to be objective)
to seeing the positive nature
of what was proposed
and how we could approve this
in its final form
in a way that would be a positive thing
and a credit for the town and for Watchtower.
It’s really a pleasure working with Watchtower
—always friendly
and always very knowledgeable
about what you’re going after,
what your programming is,
the type of project that you want to do
and, really, a lot of dedication
to the site itself and the environment.
I drive past the Patterson site all the time,
and it’s gorgeous,
and you really maintain your properties.
It’s a pleasure working with you,
and you’re really valued
by the communities that you’re in.
All those folks who have been working on it
should be very proud
of the work that they’ve done.
They’ve done a great job.
Everyone has been very honest and forthcoming
with their intentions
of what they plan to bring here.
You are now going to be our neighbors,
and welcome to the neighborhood.
We’re very excited that you chose our town
for this very important site for you,
and so far it’s been
a great experience working with you,
and we look to continue that relationship.
I feel relieved.
I feel relieved that after what’s been
almost three years
of work with the town
—to go through this process to make sure
that every box was ticked
and every issue addressed—
it’s finally done.
And it’s produced what our organization needs,
and it’s done it in a way
that the community is satisfied.
And we saw that tonight by the fact
that there was not one single person
speaking out in opposition to the project.
No comments were made
that were detrimental
to what we’ve proposed and planned,
so it was a very easy project
for the town board members
to embrace and to approve
because they weren’t dealing
with any political opposition.
“Psalm 4:3 states:
“‘Know that Jehovah
will treat his loyal one in a special way.’
“Time and again,
we are seeing evidence
“of Jehovah treating us ‘in a special way’
“by moving this project
over one hurdle after another.
“All praise goes to him.
“We still have a long way to go
and many obstacles to overcome.
“But we are confident
that Jehovah will continue to open the way.
We’ll keep the brotherhood updated
as this exciting project develops.”